# Using the NIST CSF to respond to a security incident
## Scenario
You are a cybersecurity analyst working for a multimedia company that offers web design services, graphic design, and social media marketing solutions to small businesses. Your organization recently experienced a DDoS attack, which compromised the internal network for two hours until it was resolved.

During the attack, your organization’s network services suddenly stopped responding due to an incoming flood of ICMP packets. Normal internal network traffic could not access any network resources. The incident management team responded by blocking incoming ICMP packets, stopping all non-critical network services offline, and restoring critical network services. 

The company’s cybersecurity team then investigated the security event. They found that a malicious actor had sent a flood of ICMP pings into the company’s network through an unconfigured firewall. This vulnerability allowed the malicious attacker to overwhelm the company’s network through a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. 

To address this security event, the network security team implemented: 

- A new firewall rule to limit the rate of incoming ICMP packets

- Source IP address verification on the firewall to check for spoofed IP addresses on incoming ICMP packets

- Network monitoring software to detect abnormal traffic patterns

- An IDS/IPS system to filter out some ICMP traffic based on suspicious characteristics

## Incident Report Analysis
### Summary
For two hours, the organization’s network services stopped responding, and normal internal network traffic couldn’t access any resources. The incident management team blocked incoming ICMP packets, took all non-critical services offline, and restored critical network services. The cybersecurity team’s investigation revealed that this was a Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attack. A malicious actor flooded the network with ICMP packets sent through an unconfigured firewall, overwhelming the network.

---
### 1. Identify
The incident management team discovered that a flood of ICMP pings from a malicious actor rendered the network services unresponsive. The cybersecurity team’s investigation revealed that the attacker was able to access the network through an unconfigured firewall, resulting in an ICMP flood DDoS attack.

---
### 2. Protect
To prevent future attacks, the network security team has implemented a firewall rule to limit the rate of incoming ICMP packets.

---
### 3. Detect
To detect future attacks, the network security team has set up verification of the source IP address to identify spoofed IP addresses and incorporated tools such as a network monitoring software to detect abnormal traffic patterns, as well as an IDS/IPS system to filter out suspicious ICMP traffic.

---
### 4. Respond
For future security events, the incident management team will isolate affected systems to prevent it from spreading and analyze logs to identify any suspicious activity. All affected staff and customers will be informed of the network disruptions and legal authorities will also be notified if required by local law.

---
### 5. Recover
Recovery from an ICMP flooding DDoS attack will involve restoring all network services, starting with critical systems to ensure service continuity. The configured firewall will block future ICMP flood attacks, and any affected systems or services will be isolated as necessary. Non-critical systems and services will be restored once the threat has been neutralized. 
