# Scoring risks based on their likelihood and severity

## Scenario
You've joined a new cybersecurity team at a commercial bank. The team is conducting a risk assessment of the bank's current operational environment. As part of the assessment, they are creating a risk register to help them focus on securing the most vulnerable risks.
Your supervisor asks you to evaluate a set of risks that the cybersecurity team has recorded in the risk register. For each risk, you will first determine how likely that risk is to occur. Then, you will determine how severely that risk may impact the bank. Finally, you will calculate a score for the severity of that risk. You will then compare scores across all risks so your team can determine how to prioritize their attention for each risk.

#### Risk matrix
| Likelihood / Severity | Low (1) | Moderate (2) | Catastrophic (3) |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Certain (3) | 3 | 6 | 9 |
| Likely (2) | 2 | 4 | 6 |
| Rare (1) | 1 | 2 | 3 |

---

## Risk register

### Operational environment
The bank is located in a coastal area with low crime rates. 
Many people and systems handle the bank's data—100 on-premise employees and 20 remote employees. The customer base of the bank includes 2,000 individual accounts and 200 commercial accounts. 
The bank's services are marketed by a professional sports team and ten local businesses in the community. 
There are strict financial regulations that require the bank to secure their data and funds, like having enough cash available each day to meet Federal Reserve requirements.

| Asset | Risk(s) | Description | Likelihood | Seveity | Priority |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Funds | Business email compromise | An employee is tricked into sharing confidential information. | 2 | 2 | 4 |
|  | Compromised user database | Customer data is poorly encrypted. | 2 | 3 | 6 |
|  | Financial records leak | A database server of backed up data is publicly accessible. | 3 | 3 | 9 |
|  | Theft | The bank's safe is left unlocked. | 1 | 3 | 3 |
|  | Supply chain disruption | Delivery delays due to natural disasters. | 1 | 2 | 2 |

#### Notes
Due to the high number of employees, there is an increased risk of data breaches caused by human error, which could result in the exposure of confidential information. 
Similarly, a large customer base presents potential vulnerabilities, such as poorly encrypted data, increasing the likelihood of records being leaked through compromised avenues.
Doing business with other companies might also increase the data risks since it presents other avenues for the information to be compromised.
