# Documenting an incident with an incident handler's journal

## Scenario

A small U.S. health care clinic specializing in delivering primary-care services experienced a security incident on a Tuesday morning, at approximately 9:00 a.m. Several employees reported that they were unable to use their computers to access files like medical records. Business operations shut down because employees were unable to access the files and software needed to do their job.

Additionally, employees also reported that a ransom note was displayed on their computers. The ransom note stated that all the company's files were encrypted by an organized group of unethical hackers who are known to target organizations in healthcare and transportation industries. In exchange for restoring access to the encrypted files, the ransom note demanded a large sum of money in exchange for the decryption key. 

The attackers were able to gain access into the company's network by using targeted phishing emails, which were sent to several employees of the company. The phishing emails contained a malicious attachment that installed malware on the employee's computer once it was downloaded.

Once the attackers gained access, they deployed their ransomware, which encrypted critical files. The company was unable to access critical patient data, causing major disruptions in their business operations. The company was forced to shut down their computer systems and contact several organizations to report the incident and receive technical assistance.

---

## Incident Handler's Journal

| Date: December 27, 2024 | Entry: #1 |
| :---- | :---- |
| Description | Documenting a cybersecurity incident |
| Tool(s) used | None |
| The 5 W's  | Who: An organized group of unethical hackers known to target organizations in healthcare and transportation industries. <br><br> What: The company’s files were encrypted and a ransom of a large sum of money was demanded in exchange for the decryption key to restore access to the encrypted files. <br><br> Where: At a small U.S health care clinic specializing in delivering primary-care services. <br><br> When: Tuesday at approximately 9:00 a.m. <br><br> Why: The attackers gained access to the company's network through targeted phishing emails sent to several employees. These emails contained a malicious attachment that, when downloaded, installed malware on the employee's computer, encrypting critical files and restricting access to critical patient data. |
| Additional notes | Is there an alternative to paying the ransom? <br><br> One of the ways to prevent a recurrence of the incident is employee training on identifying phishing emails. |
