# Terraform configuration file

IaC is the practice of provisioning and managing infrastructure using reusable scripts. IaC’s automation capabilities are important in cloud computing. Automation reinforces an organization’s security posture by incorporating security checks early in the software development process. Automation also helps ensure developers across teams use the same source code when creating infrastructure for virtual machines and applications.

## Scenario

You've recently joined the Cymbal Bank security team as a junior cloud security analyst. As part of the security team, you’re responsible for ensuring that virtual machines (VMs) are correctly configured and deployed using IaC. IaC introduces automation, ensuring that the VMs are consistent across Cymbal Bank’s hybrid cloud infrastructure. IaC can also automate security checks from the beginning of the development process. Your awareness of how security risks can translate to the retail industry is an incredible asset to your team. For example, you know that configuration drift and invalid code inputs could cause serious security implications. With Cymbal Bank’s global presence online, along with its 170 physical stores, the security of the VMs are extremely important.

You’ve received a request to provision infrastructure to help with Cymbal Bank's hybrid cloud migration efforts. You’ve been asked to create server instances, also called virtual machines (VMs), and to install some software based on the standard Terraform installation template.

The Terraform file creates a network with a Google Compute Engine instance. Once Terraform processes this file, it will create the infrastructure.

```HCL
resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
  name                    = "my-custom-mode-network"
  auto_create_subnetworks = false
  mtu                     = 1460
}

resource "google_compute_subnetwork" "default" {
  name          = "my-custom-subnet"
  ip_cidr_range = "10.0.1.0/24"
  region        = "us-west1"
  network       = google_compute_network.vpc_network.id
}

# Create a single Compute Engine instance
resource "google_compute_instance" "default" {
  name         = "flask-vm"
  machine_type = "f1-micro"
  zone         = "us-west1-a"
  tags         = ["ssh"]

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "debian-cloud/debian-11"
    }
  }

  # Install Flask
  metadata_startup_script = "sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get install -yq build-essential python3-pip rsync; pip install flask"

  network_interface {
    subnetwork = google_compute_subnetwork.default.id
    access_config {
      # Include this section to give the VM an external IP address
    }
  }
}
```

### Cloud Resources the different pieces of code create in the file

The first resource block creates a Virtual Private Cloud on Google’s network. To create the virtual machine, one must first create the compute network that the virtual machine can run on. In this case, the compute network is a Google Cloud Virtual Private Cloud.

The virtual machine itself is defined and created in the third resource block. The virtual machine’s zone is also defined in the third resource block.

### Changing a virtual machine’s location

In this Terraform template, the region is “us-west1” and the zone is  “us-west1-a". To change the location of the virtual machine, the region or zone can be changed.

A region is a collection of zones. Zones are deployment areas within a region. One should run resources across the zones closest to customers. Inputting a different region or a zone closer to Cymbal Bank’s customer base can improve Cymbal Bank’s customer reach.

### Incorporating IaC to improve security

IaC tools may offer the ability to scan the environment for configuration drift. Configuration drift can lead to vulnerabilities. Identifying and correcting drift using IaC tools reduces the potential attack surface.

Automation ensures developers consistently use the same configuration settings for provisioning infrastructure. Automating the provisioning of infrastructure with code leaves little room for unintentional errors made by infrastructure developers. Even a small deviation in the source code could result in unwelcome bugs or other security problems.

IaC tools can help you detect invalid inputs in the build process. For example, if you have a variable such as `number_of_instances`, you can say that it must range from 1–10.
