# Reviewing and Updating a Risk Management Policy

In this activity, we will review and update an organization’s risk management policy for compliance with the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s risk management framework **NIST SP 800-53**.

As a security professional, writing and updating policies that protect assets in the cloud will be an important part of the job. To practice these skills, we will assess how well an organization’s risk policy protects them from the negative effects of non-compliance.

## Scenario

As part of the security team at Cymbal Bank, you’re responsible for keeping the organization in compliance with applicable regulations. You also play a part in your organization’s risk analysis and risk management processes.

Cymbal Bank is updating its risk management policy, and the cloud security team has been asked to revise the sections that deal with IT assets. Cymbal Bank is currently moving its IT infrastructure to a hybrid cloud model. Therefore, it’s important for the organization’s risk management policy to align with external regulations to avoid the negative impacts of non-compliance. Each member of the team has been asked to assess the risk management policy for compliance with a different risk management framework. You have been assigned to assess the policy against the NIST SP 800-53 framework.

## Risk Management Policy

### Cymbal Bank: Risk Management Policy

**Purpose:** This policy has been created to identify, assess, and manage risks associated with Cymbal Bank’s use of hybrid cloud solutions. This policy includes guidelines to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Cymbal Bank’s cloud resources.

**1. Access Control**

- If an employee expects to leave their workstation unattended, they must lock their workstation. Employee workstations may not be configured to automatically lock.
- Privileged functions include access to sensitive data and the ability to modify system configurations, such as security settings. Privileged functions can be carried out by non-privileged accounts, if necessary.

**2. Awareness and Training**

- New employees will be trained on current cyber threats.
- All new employees must receive identical cyber threat training, regardless of their role.

**3. Configuration Management**

- All users can install software on their work devices, as necessary.
- Before system changes are implemented, they should be analyzed for their potential security impacts.

**4. Identification and Authentication**

- User passwords are required to be complex and must be changed regularly. User passwords may not contain spaces or punctuation.
- Maintain a list of commonly used, expected, or compromised passwords and update the list once per month. When a user attempts to change their password, verify that the new password is not on the list.

**5. Incident Response**

- Employees whose responsibilities are part of incident response should receive incident response training within one week of assuming those responsibilities. More training should be conducted every three months or as required by system changes, and the training content should be updated each year.
- Incident response training should include simulated incidents to facilitate employees practicing their responsibilities.

**6. Physical and Environmental Protection**

- The security team must develop and maintain a list of individuals who are authorized to access Cymbal Bank’s server room. These individuals must be granted authorization credentials and cannot be removed from the list once added.
- In order to access the server room, visitors must provide two forms of identification from the approved list.

**7. Risk Assessment**

- The security team must determine the current cyber threat environment on an ongoing basis using security newsletters and cyber threat databases.
- The security team monitors and scans for vulnerabilities in the cloud environment.  

**8. System and Information Integrity**

- Cymbal Bank uses centrally managed identity verification tools to verify employee and user identity.
- Security alert and advisory information should be shared throughout the security team on a regular basis.

## Risk Management Policy Notes

| Policy Section | Recommended Change(s) | Reasoning |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Access Control | Configure employee workstations to lock after a certain amount of time unattended. <br><br> Privileged functions should be carried out only be privileged accounts. | AC-11: To prevent access by unauthorised users. <br><br> AC-6: To ensure the principle of least privilege is enforced. |
| Awareness and Training | Cyber threat training should differ based on an employee's role. | AT-3: To ensure the training content is relevant and effective based on the role of the individual. |
| Configuration Management | Users can install only permitted software on work devices. | CM-11: To prevent installation of prohibited software. |
| Identification and Authentication | User passwords can contain spaces or punctuation. | IA-5: This is to strengthen the password and improve its complexity. |
| Physical and Environmental Protection | Authorization of individuals who can access Cymbal Bank's server room can be revoked when necessary. | PE-6: In case one of the authorized persons changes their role or is no longer with the company, they can't access privileged data. |
| System and Information Integrity | Security alerts and advisory information should be shared throughout the organization. | SI-5: All organizational entities that have a direct interest in the success of organizational mission and business functions need to receive security alerts and advisory information to contribute to the security of the organization. |
