# Creating symmetric and asymmetric keys

Encryption is a critical component for protecting data in cloud environments. Security professionals use **cryptography** to transform information into a form that unintended readers can’t understand. Symmetric and asymmetric keys are cryptographic tools used to secure data and enable secure communication over networks. Each type of key has its own distinct differences and can be deployed for different situations.

- **Symmetric Keys:** Symmetric key cryptography uses a single key to encrypt and decrypt data. The same key is used by both the sender and the recipient which is why it's called symmetric. Symmetric key cryptography is efficient and fast.

- **Asymmetric Keys:** Asymmetric key cryptography (also known as public-key cryptography) uses a pair of keys: a public key and a private key. One of the keys is used to encrypt data, while the other key decrypts data. These keys are mathematically related but cannot be derived from each other. Asymmetric cryptography is known for its slow performance. This is due to the use of these two mathematically related keys which are longer than those used in symmetric encryption.

In practice, many secure communication systems use a combination of symmetric and asymmetric cryptography to achieve both efficiency and security. For example, the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) protocol uses asymmetric cryptography for the initial handshake to establish a secure connection, and then switches to symmetric encryption for the actual data transfer.

One of the major problems with symmetric key cryptography involves key distribution. How do you ensure the secure exchange of keys without having the key be compromised or stolen? Asymmetric key cryptography solves this problem by using a public and private key pair. However, it is computationally more expensive, so it’s commonly used for initial key exchange and digital signatures, while symmetric keys are used for the bulk encryption of data.

## Scenario

Cymbal Bank stores and processes large amounts of sensitive customer data including financial transactions and personally identifiable information (PII). The CISO, Javier, wants to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of this data while it's at rest, in transit, and in use. Cymbal Bank wants to transfer a large volume of its data from its on-premises servers to the cloud. Your team lead, Chloe, has suggested using a cloud key management system to create and manage encryption keys to facilitate the secure transmission of this data. You have been tasked with creating a symmetric key and an asymmetric key to support this data transmission.

## Creating a symmetric key

In this task, we’ll delve into the intricate process of crafting a symmetric key, complete with considerations for its designated region and the crucial aspect of its protection level. We'll begin by generating a symmetric key with carefully tailored parameters.

1. In the Google Cloud console, clicked the **Navigation menu** (☰).

2. Selected **Security > Key Management**.

3. On the **Key Rings** tabbed page, clicked **+ Create Key Ring**.

    **Now**, specified the key details.

4. For **Key ring name**, entered **demo-key-ring**.

5. For the **Location type** category, selected **Region**.

6. Expanded the **Region** drop-down menu, and selected **`REGION`**.

    _**Note:** Be sure you select the specified region, otherwise you get an error._

7. Clicked **Create**.

8. In the **Name and protection level** category, in the **Key name** field, entered **demo-key**.

    The **Protection level** should be set to **Software** by default, if not, select it.

9. Clicked **Continue**. The Key material category expands.

10. For **Key material**, selected **Generated key**.

11. Clicked **Continue**. The Purpose and algorithm category expands.

12. For **Purpose**, selected **Symmetric encrypt/decrypt**.

13. Clicked **Continue**. The Versions category expands.

14. For **Key rotation period**, selected **90 days**.

15. For **Starting on**, leave as the default value.

16. Clicked **Continue**. No additional settings are needed.

17. Clicked **Create**.

Once the key is created, it can be used for a variety of implementations such as data encryption and decryption.

**Symmetric keys** are commonly used to encrypt sensitive data before storage or transmission. When data needs to be accessed or shared, the same symmetric key is used to decrypt the encrypted content, ensuring that only authorized parties can access the original information.

## Creating an asymmetric key

In this task, we'll create an asymmetric key with specific settings, including that of its algorithm and protection level.

1. In the Google Cloud console, clicked the **Navigation menu** (☰).

2. Selected **Security > Key Management**. The Key Rings tabbed page opens, listing the newly-created key.

3. Under **Name**, clicked the link for the key you created in the previous task: **demo-key-ring**. The Key ring details page opens.

4. In the **Keys** tabbed page, clicked **+ Create Key**.

Now, specified the key details.

5. For **Key name**, entered **demo-asymmetric-key**.

6. For **Protection Level**, selected **Software**.

7. Clicked **Continue**. The Key material category expands.

8. For **Key Material**, selected **Generated key**.

9. Clicked **Continue**. The Purpose and algorithm category expands.

10. For **Purpose**, selected **Asymmetric decrypt**.

11. For **Algorithm**, leave as the default value.

12. Clicked **Continue**.

13. For **Versions**, no settings are required.

14. Clicked **Continue**. No additional settings are needed.

15. Clicked **Create**.

The asymmetric key for decryption should now be created.

**Asymmetric keys** can also be used for digital signatures. Digital signatures help verify the authenticity and integrity of messages, files, or software, ensuring that they have not been tampered with during transmission. Digital signatures use two keys, one for signing which involves the user's private key, and one for verifying signatures which involves the user's public key. The output of the signature process is called the digital signature.
