# Determining the difference between normal activity and an incident

## Scenario

Recently, the security team discovered two threat findings relating to suspicious activity with user accounts. The threat findings were promptly investigated and remediated. One of the findings was determined to be benign user activity while the other finding was confirmed as malicious. Your team lead, Chloe, has tasked you with examining the details behind each finding so that you can understand the difference between normal activity and malicious activity. To do this, you'll recreate the malicious activity to trigger IAM detectors, analyze the logs associated with both threat findings, and then remediate the malicious finding.

Event Threat Detection is one of Security Command Center's (SCC) services. Event Threat Detection is a log-based threat analysis that continuously monitors Google Cloud logs for potential threats. When Event Threat Detection identifies suspicious activity, it generates a finding that you can investigate.

## Granting permissions to an external account

In this task, we’ll grant project owner rights to an external Gmail account. Granting owner rights to an external account will trigger the Event Threat Detection IAM detectors. Granting project owner rights to an external account is considered anomalous behavior or potentially malicious activity. Event Threat Detection will identify this activity as a threat and generate findings which we'll examine in the upcoming tasks.

1. In the Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **IAM & Admin** > **IAM**. The **IAM** page opens.

On the **View By Principals** tab, note the two student users that have been automatically configured for the qwiklabs.net organization. These two users are also the same users listed in the **Lab details** panel as **Google Cloud username 1** and **Google Cloud username 2**.

These two users have automatically been granted owner roles to the lab project by a service account as part of a normal provisioning process. This will trigger an alert finding or incident because an external principal has an owner role. However, because both users belong to the qwiklabs.net organization this alert is considered normal activity. You will examine this alert finding later.

2. On the **View By Principals** tab, clicked **Grant Access**. The **Grant access** dialog displays.
3. Under the **Add principals** section, in the **New principals** field, typed **`bad.actor.demo@gmail.com`**.
4. Expanded the **Select a role** drop-down menu, selected **Basic**, and then selected **Owner**.
5. Clicked **Save**.

You have now assigned the owner role to the external user `bad.actor.demo@gmail.com`. This will trigger a finding in SCC because this user is outside of the qwiklabs.net organization.

## Accessing the Event Threat Detection findings

In this task, we’ll access the Event Threat Detection findings in the Security Command Center.

1. In the Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **Security > Findings**. The **Findings** page opens.

Notice three findings with high severities listed in the **Finding query results** panel. In this lab, we’ll examine two **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** findings to determine whether the finding is normal activity or whether it is malicious.

_**Note:** If the **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** findings are not listed, you may have to wait a few minutes and refresh. Wait until both these active findings display before continuing._

The **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** indicates that an anomalous IAM grant was detected. This means that a user or service account was granted access to a resource that they should not have had access to. This could be a potential indication of a malicious actor attempting to gain unauthorized access to the environment.

**Next**, filter the findings to display a list of **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** category findings.

2. In the **Quick filters** panel, in the **Category** section, selected the checkbox for the **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** category.

_**Note:** Selecting attributes with quick filters automatically adds them to the query. Notice that the Query preview is updated with the **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** category you selected. You can locate specific findings or groups of findings by editing the findings query._

The filter returns two **Persistence: IAM anomalous grant** findings.

3. Clicked the **Event time** column header to sort the findings in descending order, so that the earliest finding is at the top.

## Analyzing the findings

In this task, we'll examine these findings to determine which is normal activity and which is a genuine incident.

1. In the **Findings query results** panel, in the **Category** column, clicked the **Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant** finding with the earliest event time. The **Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant** dialog opens on the **Summary** tab, which displays the finding summary.

2. Find the **Principal email** row. This is the user account that granted the owner role to the user. Notice that the service account belongs to the qwiklabs.net organization. With this information, one can establish that this finding represents normal and expected activity.

3. Clicked the **Source Properties** tab, and expanded **properties > sensitiveRoleGrant > members**. Again, the email address listed for **principalEmail** is the user that granted the owner role, and the email address(es) listed for **members** is the user that was granted the owner role.

A user belonging to the qwiklabs.net organization was granted the owner role in the earliest Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant finding record

**Next**, we'll locate the malicious activity associated with the external user account that was granted access to: `bad.actor.demo@gmail.com`.

4. Clicked the close (**X**) button to return to the **Findings** page.
5. In the **Findings query results** panel, in the **Category** column, clicked on the **Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant** findings record with the latest event time.
6. Note the value on the **Principal email** row. This is the user account email address that granted the owner role to the user.
7. Click **Source Properties** tab, and expanded **properties > sensitiveRoleGrant > members**. Notice the user account **`bad.actor.demo@gmail.com`**, which is an external user account. With this information, we can establish that this finding is associated with an unauthorized and malicious actor.

The external `bad.actor.demo@gmail.com` user was granted the owner role in the Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant finding with the latest event time.

The Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant finding with the latest event time is a genuine incident.

## Accessing the findings in Cloud Logging

In this task, we’ll access the events related to the Security Command Center findings in Cloud Logging.

1. In the Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰) clicked **Logging > Logs Explorer**. The **Logs Explorer** page opens. (You may need to click **More Products** to expand the **Navigation menu** options and locate **Logging** under **Operations**.)
2. Typed the following query into the **Query** builder at the top of the page:

```
protoPayload.authorizationInfo.permission="resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy"
protoPayload.methodName="InsertProjectOwnershipInvite"
```

This query filters the IAM logs.

3. Clicked **Run query**. The query results should display on the **Query results** pane.
4. In the **Query results** pane, expanded the audit log listed for the project.
5. Clicked **Expand nested fields**. All the nested fields contained in the log are made visible.

We can now examine the details of the anomalous request event including information such as:

- **authenticationInfo**: The email of the user who made the request.
- **request**: The email identity of the user the anomalous grant was made to.
- **request Metadata**: The IP address of the system where the request was made, the browser user agent of the web browser that was used.

This information can be vital when investigating whether an event is normal activity or an actual threat event.

A student user belonging to the qwiklabs.net organization made the request to grant the project owner role to the `bad.actor@gmail.com` user.

## Fixing the finding

In this task, we’ll remediate the malicious **Persistence: IAM Anomalous Grant** finding by removing the project owner role that had been previously assigned to the external user.

1. In the Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **IAM & Admin** > **IAM**. The **IAM** page opens.
2. Next to the **`bad.actor.demo@gmail.com`** user, clicked the **Edit principal** (✎) icon. The **Edit permissions** page opens.
3. Clicked the **Delete** icon to delete the owner role.
4. Clicked **Save**.

The policy will be updated, and the owner role removed from the `bad.actor.demo@gmail.com` user.

Through this lab activity, I have gained practical experience in analyzing a security alert to determine whether it is a genuine malicious activity.

This was done by granting permissions to an external user, viewing the Event Threat Detection findings in the Security Command Center, and accessing the findings in Cloud Logging.

Finally, I remediated the finding by removing the project owner role from the external user.

As a security analyst, these are skills that can enable one to quickly take steps to contain, mitigate, and remediate any threats.
