# Exploring false positives through incident detection

False positives can be triggered by genuine and legitimate user activity. Security teams may spend lots of time and resources investigating false positive alerts only to discover that there is no real threat.

## Scenario

Your team lead, Chloe, has been notified of a low severity security alert. The alert identified a service account with broad permissions using insecure key management practices through user managed keys. Upon further investigation it was found that Hank, the cloud architect, unintentionally triggered this alert. Hank was testing a new service account and accidentally created the key for the test user account. This alert was addressed and closed as a false positive.

Chloe believes this alert serves as a great example of a false positive alert. Chloe has tasked you with recreating the activity that triggered the false positive alert. You'll analyze the alert and then remediate it. The process of recreating the false positive serves as a valuable learning experience that will help you understand how and why the alert was triggered and how you can implement effective security policies to mitigate further false positive alerts.

## Creating a service account

In this task, we’ll create a service account and grant it permissions sufficient to trigger an anomalous threat finding in SCC.

1. In Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.

2. In the action bar, clicked **+ Create Service Account**.

3. In the **Service account details** section:

    - In the **Service account name** field, typed **test-account**.

        Notice the **Service account ID** automatically populates.

    - Clicked **Create and Continue**.

        Notice the pop-up message “Service account created”.

4. In the **Grant this service account access to project** section, expanded the **Select a role** drop-down menu, selected **Basic**, and then selected **Owner**.

5. Clicked **Continue**, and then clicked **Done**.

Notice the **test-account** service account listed in the **Service accounts** list.

## Creating a JSON authentication key for your service account

In this task, we’ll create and download a JSON authentication key for the new service account created in the previous task. We’ll then use Cloud Shell to upload that key to the Google Cloud account. This will trigger a threat finding in SCC.

1. Still on the **Service Accounts** page, inline with the **test-account** service account, clicked **Actions** (:) **> Manage keys**. The **test-account** page opens.

2. In the **Keys** section, clicked **Add Key > Create new key**.

3. In the **Create private key** dialog, set the **Key type** to **JSON**.

4. Clicked **Create**.

    The console prompts you to download the key to your local device. Once downloaded, we’ll use Cloud Shell to upload the key to your Google Cloud (student) account.

5. On your local device, navigated to the key file you just downloaded and renamed it **test-account**.

6. In the Google Cloud console, clicked the Activate Cloud Shell (`>_`) icon.

7. Clicked **Continue**.

    It should only take a few moments to provision and connect to the Cloud Shell environment.

8. In the Cloud Shell title bar, clicked **More** (:) **> Upload > Choose Files**.

9. Navigated to and selected the file on your local machine, and then in the **Upload** dialog, clicked **Upload**.

10. Typed the following command into the Cloud Shell terminal:

```sh
    ls
```

This command lists the key file that just uploaded.

In the **test-account** page, in the **Key** list, notice the key that was just created with the **Key creation date** as the current date.

## Triggering a false positive finding

In this task, we’ll reconfigure the Cloud Shell environment to use the new **test-account** service account that was created in the first task. This will trigger a threat finding in SCC. Then, we’ll assign excessive permissions to the lab project.

1. Typed the following command into the Cloud Shell terminal:

```sh
    export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud info --format='value(config.project)')
    export SA_NAME="test-account@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
    gcloud auth activate-service-account ${SA_NAME} --key-file=test-account.json
```

This command activates the new service account.

2. Typed the following command into the Cloud Shell terminal:

```sh
    gcloud auth list
```

This command confirms that the service account is activated, and that gcloud is using this service account.

In the output, the following confirms the service account is active:

```
ACTIVE: *
ACCOUNT: test-account@"Google Cloud project ID".iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

3. Typed the following command into the Cloud Shell terminal:

```sh
export STUDENT2="Google Cloud username 2"
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID --member user:$STUDENT2 --role roles/editor
```

This command grants the editor role to user 2 so that we can access and remediate the false positive finding in the next task.

## Signing in as a second user

We'll need to switch Google Cloud accounts by logging into the Google Cloud console using the second user account provided in the **Lab Details** panel. We will use this user account to perform the remaining tasks.

1. In the Google Cloud console, clicked on the user icon in the top-right corner of the screen, and then clicked **Add account**.

2. Navigated back to the **Lab Details** panel and typed the username and password into the Google Cloud console **Sign in** dialog.

## Viewing the threat finding in SCC as a second user

In this task, we’ll locate and examine the SCC finding generated by the service Event Threat Detection. This finding is a false positive that was triggered by the activity generated in Tasks 1-3.

To view the Event Threat Detection finding in SCC:

1. In the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **Security > Findings**.

2. In the **Quick filters** pane, located the **Category** section, then selected **User managed service account key**. If necessary, click **View more** to find it.

    The **Findings query results** panel updates to display only the selected finding category.

3. In the **Findings query results** panel, displayed the details of the finding by clicking the most recent (see **Event time**) **User managed service account key** in the **Category** column. The details panel for the finding opens and displays the **Summary** tab.

## Fixing the finding

In this task, we'll remediate the false positive by deleting the JSON authentication key for the **test-account** service account.

1. In Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), clicked **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.

2. On the **Service accounts** page, clicked the email address of the **test-account** service account.

3. Clicked the **Keys** tab.

4. From the list of keys, clicked the **Delete service account key** icon to delete the key. A pop-up will appear asking you to confirm the action. Click **Delete**.

I used SCC to investigate a false positive and took action to remediate it.
