# Documenting a timeline of events

Cloud security analysts rely on documentation to communicate with their team, make decisions, and improve workflows. Documentation conveys critical information because it provides historical insight into what happened previously, support for the present, and recommendations for the future. There are many forms of documentation that can be used. In incident response, some common forms of documentation include incident summaries, timelines, technical findings, and more.

## Scenario

As a cloud security analyst at Cymbal Bank, part of your role involves developing and implementing incident response processes and procedures. This includes creating processes like playbooks to protect Cymbal Bank's data and reputation.

Recently, a team member received a high-severity alert involving a phishing attempt. Over a week-long investigation into the alert, the team discovered that the employee who received the phishing email had mistakenly provided their cloud credentials through the phishing link. The team quickly worked on containing and remediating the attack.

This is the first time Cymbal Bank has experienced a severe phishing attempt after adopting cloud services. Cymbal Bank's executive leadership has been made aware of this alert and wants to use it as a learning opportunity to grow and develop their security awareness training program.

Your team lead, Chloe, is preparing a presentation for Cymbal Bank's executive stakeholders. The purpose of this presentation is to provide an executive summary about the incident findings. Chloe requested your help in developing a visual timeline of this security incident. The timeline will be included in the presentation so that nontechnical stakeholders can better understand the core details of this incident.

## Alert Ticket

Incident: INC-10056
A phishing email was sent to a user and resulted in unauthorized access.

| Incident ID | Reported | Severity | Status |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| INC-10056 | 10/12/2023 12:31PM | High | Closed |

| Summary |
| --- |
| One user received a phishing email containing a link to a fake page prompting the user to reauthenticate using their credentials. The user, Lucas, clicked the link and posted their credentials into the phishing form. The attacker used Lucas' stolen credentials to authenticate into their account and log in to four applications. |

| Timestamp | Event |
| --- | --- |
| 2023-10-12 11:45:00 | The user receives an email containing a phishing link. |
| 2023-10-12 11:46:00 | The user clicks on the phishing link. |
| 2023-10-12 11:47:00 | The user submits their credentials into the phishing link form. |
| 2023-10-12 11:48:00 | The security team receives an alert for an unrecognized device login from an unusual geolocation. |
| 2023-10-12 11:49:00 | Suspicious activity is observed in four applications. |

## Phishing Presentation

INC-10056: Phishing

### Summary

Last week, we responded to a high-severity phishing alert. Our security team was able to quickly respond to the alert and rectify the malicious activity before any  harm could be done to our infrastructure.  

### Agenda

In this presentation, I will discuss the details of the incident, explain how we addressed it, and offer suggestions to improve Cymbal Bank's security posture moving forward, using this incident as a learning opportunity.

### A timeline of events

October 12, 2023

| Time | Activity |
| --- | --- |
| 11:45 AM | Phishing email received |
| 11:46 AM | User clicks phishing link |
| 11:47 AM | User submits credentials to phishing link |
| 11:48 AM | Unusual login detected |
| 11:49 AM | Suspicious activity identified on 4 applications |
