# Recovering VMs with Google Backup and DR Service

Business continuity and disaster recovery planning is critical for sustaining business operations while recovering from a significant security incident, natural disaster, or disruption.

Google Cloud Backup and DR Service is a cloud-based backup and disaster recovery solution that enables the backup and recovery of data, to support quick resumption of critical business operations.

After Backup and DR performs an initial full backup, data (general applications, VMware VMs, Compute Engine VMs, databases, and file systems) is backed up incrementally, updating and storing any data that has changed since the last backup.

## Scenario

The initial configuration of the Backup and DR service includes the deployment of a management appliance that can take up to 45 minutes to complete. This task has been carried out for you prior to the lab startup. Once the Backup and DR Service are enabled, you can explore the Backup and DR management console and protect workloads.

Cymbal Bank's Incident Response Team successfully responded to the security incident and contained the unauthorized access. Hannah and the rest of the Incident Response Team are working on implementing recovery actions to restore the affected virtual machines (VMs). You have been asked to assist with this.

## Connecting to the Backup and DR console

Before we can begin implementing recovery actions, we'll first need to connect to the Backup and DR console.

1. In the Google Cloud console, clicked the **Navigation menu** (☰) > **Backup and DR**. (You will have to click **More Products** and then scroll down to find **Backup and DR** in the **Operations** section).
2. From left navigation pane, clicked **Management console**.
3. In the **Log in to the management console** section, clicked **Log in to the management console**.
4. If asked to **Choose an account**, clicked your **Google Cloud Username**.
5. **Skip** the **Welcome to Google Backup and DR!** tour. The Backup and DR management console opens.
6. In the Backup and DR management console title bar, clicked **Manage** > **Appliances**.

If the management server and the Backup and Recovery server are successfully installed, the Connectivity status has a green check.

_**Note:** If the **Update Status** is **Pending** (yellow exclamation point), an update is waiting for installation. You can ignore this and continue to your next task._

## Creating a backup plan template

In this task, we’ll create a backup plan template.

Backup plan templates are composed of backup policies. In policies, we define when to run a backup, how frequently to run a backup, and how long to retain the backup image for — **Days**, **Weeks**, **Months**, or **Years**.

1. In the Backup and DR management console titlebar, clicked **Backup Plans** > **Templates**, and then clicked **+Create Template**.
2. In the **Template** field, set the template name to **vm-backup**.

_**Note:** Template names are text strings. The only allowed special characters are spaces, underscores (_), and dashes (-)._

3. In the **Description** field, typed **Virtual Machine Backups**.
4. In the **Policies** box, next to **Snapshot,** clicked **+ Add** to add a production to snapshot backup policy.

_**Note:** If the **Policies** box is not displayed, scroll to the right or expand the browser window._

The **Production to Snapshot** dialog opens.

5. In the **Create/Edit Policy** section, set the following fields and leave all other settings at their defaults:

|Field|Value|
|---|---|
|**Policy Name**|Daily VM snapshot|
|**Scheduling**|Continuous|
|**Every**|2 Hour(s)|

_**Note:** The **Scheduling** policy type can be either **Windowed** or **Continuous**. The default is **Windowed:**_

• **Windowed** defines a discrete snapshot backup schedule adhering to a specific frequency and time window.  
• **Continuous** defines a continuous snapshot backup schedule

6. Clicked **Create Policy**.
7. Clicked **Save Template**.
8. Clicked **Okay** to acknowledge template creation **Success.**

Keep the Backup and DR management console open in a new tab for the entire lab.

## Validating the backup and recovery appliance service account permissions

In this task, we’ll view the required IAM roles of the backup/recovery appliance to verify that it has the correct IAM roles.

An appliance is a hardware or software device that is designed to perform a specific task. Security appliances are used to protect networks from unauthorized access, attacks, and data breaches.

Every appliance has a dedicated service account attached to it — that was created during appliance deployment in the project where the appliance was deployed. For appliances installed on version 11.0.2 and higher, a corresponding cloud credential for this service account is automatically created at the time of an appliance deployment.

The name of the cloud credential is based on the appliance name followed by the suffix `-sa`. For example, if the name of the backup/recovery appliance is `bur-appliance-us-east1`, then the name appliances corresponding cloud credential is `bur-appliance-us-east1-sa`.

To view and verify the required IAM role:

1. Return to the Google Cloud console, in the **Navigation menu** (☰), click **IAM & Admin** > **IAM**.
2. In the **Name** column, find the service account attached to your backup appliance, the service account's name should be **Service account for backup and recovery appliance**.
3. In the **Role** column, notice that the **Backup and DR Cloud Storage Operator role** is already assigned.

## Discovering and adding Compute Engine instances to the management console

In this task, we’ll use the **onboarding wizard** to onboard the Compute Engine instances. Onboarding an instance means to attach the template to the instance.

1. Returned to the Backup and DR management console.
2. From the titlebar, clicked **Backup and Recover** > **Back Up**.
3. In the **Google Cloud** section, clicked **Compute Engine**.
4. Under **Credential**, select **backup**, and clicked **Next**.

The **Project ID** and **Zone** drop-down options are populated with details from the appliance that maps to the **workflow** credential.

5. Clicked **Search**.

The results are listed in the search results. You may have to scroll down to view them:

- **lab-vm**
- **qwiklabs-appliance**

6. Selected the **lab-vm** Compute Engine instance for backup, and then clicked **Next**.

_**Note:** If no instances or only one instance appear, ensure that the zone selected matches the zone where your Compute Engine instance(lab-vm) is located or running._

7. In the **Enable backups for Compute Engine VM instances?** page, selected the **lab-vm** and then set the following:
    - **Action:** From the drop-down menu, select **Apply a backup template**.
    - **Backup template:** From the drop-down menu, select **vm-backup**.
8. Clicked **OK**.
9. Clicked **Next**.

A **Summary of changes** screen appears and provides the following information:

- Instance Name: `lab-vm`
- Appliance: `qwiklabs-appliance`
- Action: Apply a backup template

11. Clicked **Finish** to complete the onboarding process. This triggers the back up of the selected Compute Engine instances based on the **Policy Template** you attached.
12. Clicked **Finish** to confirm your intent to finish.

After onboarding is complete the **Status** is a green check. This means the policy template is attached to the selected VM.

_**Note:** Backup and DR ensures that the chosen Compute Engine instances get backed up at the frequency you set in the backup policy._

13. In the Backup and DR management console titlebar, clicked **Monitor** > **Jobs**.

You can monitor the progress of the backup job. When the job is finished, you have an image that you can restore if needed.

If the jobs list is empty, the backup job has either not started or is already completed. Use different filter options to populate the jobs list, for example **Succeeded** or **All** filter options. Filter results are listed in the **Jobs** list.

_**Note:** The job may take five minutes or longer to finish._

## Restoring a Compute Engine instance

Now that we have an image of the Compute Engine instance, in this task, we’ll create a brand new Compute Engine instance using the backup image that was created in the previous task.

1. From the Backup and DR management console titlebar, clicked **Backup & Recover** > **Recover**.
2. Clicked the name of the Compute Engine instance you want to recover (**lab-vm**) to select it. Clicked **Next**.
3. In the action bar, clicked **Table**. In the **Images** list, one image is displayed because there has only been one backup image created.
4. Selected the image and clicked **Mount**.

_**Note:** Typically, the **Mount** panel has many selection choices that allow you to choose where and how to restore an image. In this lab, you may have only one timeline option as you just created the first backup._

5. Under **Mount**, selected **Mount as new GCE instance**.
6. Reviewed the configuration options and then updated the following:
    - **Region**: Change this to `REGION`
    - **Zone**: Change this to `ZONE`
    - **Instance name**: lab-vm-recovered
7. Scrolled to the bottom of the page and clicked **Mount**.
8. On the **Success** dialog, clicked **Go to Job Monitor**.
9. In the filter pane, in the **Status** section, uncheck **Running**. Two jobs are displayed, an earlier with a **Succeeded** status, and the one you just started with a **Running** status.

When both jobs have a **Succeeded** status, you have the Computer Engine instance.

_**Note:** The job may take five minutes or longer depending on the region you selected._

To view the recovered VM, go to the Google Cloud console, in **Navigation menu** (☰), click **Compute Engine** > **VM instances** to view three VM instances:

- **lab-vm**
- **lab-vm-recovered**
- **qwiklabs-appliance**

## Restoring a Compute Engine instance to an alternate project

In this task, we’ll restore a Computer Engine instance using the back up template you created, but this time to a different project.

You can also create a brand new Compute Engine instance in a different project from backup images.

_**Note:** Before you set the default service account as a **Principal** in a different project, you must add the default service account as a **Principal** in the target project._

To restore a Compute Engine instance to an alternate project, you first add the service account of project 1 as a principle to Google Cloud project 2 and then recover the instance on Google Cloud project 2:

1. In the Google Cloud console, in the Navigation menu (☰), clicked **IAM & Admin** > **IAM**.
2. In the list of principals, find and copy the email of the **Service account for backup and recovery appliance** to use in Step 6. The email is similar to the following: <br> - `_qwiklabs-appliances@qwiklabs-gcp-xx-xxxxxxxxx.iam.gserviceaccount.com_` <br> - `qwiklabs-appliances@qwiklabs-gcp-02-a326874705f7.iam.gserviceaccount.com`
3. In the Google Cloud console, clicked the **Project** selection drop-down. If the project lists only one project, clicked **All** to open the **All** tab.
4. Search for Google Cloud project ID 2:`qwiklabs-gcp-01-f8897f406d81` and then clicked to select that project ID. You are now in the **Permissions** page for Google Cloud project ID 2:`qwiklabs-gcp-01-f8897f406d81`.
5. Clicked **Grant access**.
6. In the **Add Principles** section, in the **New principals** field, paste the email address of the service account of Google Cloud project 1, named **Service account for backup and recovery appliance**. It should be still in your clipboard.
7. In the **Assign roles** section:
    - Clicked **Select a role** and assigned the **Backup and DR** > **Backup and DR Compute Engine Operator** role.
    - Clicked **+Add Another Role**.
    - Clicked **Select a role** and assigned the **Backup and DR** > **Backup and DR Cloud Storage Operator** role.
8. Clicked **Save**.

We’ve added the service account of Google Cloud project 1 as a principal to Google Cloud project 2. You can now recover the instance on google Cloud project 2.

9. From the Backup and DR management console, navigated to **Backup & Recover** > **Recover**.
10. Selected **`lab-vm`** (the Compute Engine instance we want to recover), and clicked **Next**.

_**Note:** The green check next to the instance means that instance has been backed up, the red X means it hasn't._

11. In the action bar, clicked **Table.**
12. In the **Images** list, selected the top image and then clicked **Mount**.
13. Under **Mount**, selected **Mount as new GCE instance**.
14. Review the configuration and updated the following options:
    - **Project**: Changed this to `qwiklabs-gcp-01-f8897f406d81` to simulate recovering to a different project in the Google Cloud.
    - **Instance name**: Notice you can use the same instance name because you are in a different Google Cloud project. Updated the instance name to **lab-vm-project2**.
    - **Region**: Changed this to `us-east1`.
    - **Zone**: Changed this to `us-east1-c`.
15. Selected **Mount** at the bottom of the panel. A **Mount** job starts. On the **Success** dialog, clicked **Go to Job Monitor** to monitor the status of this current job. The job may take five minutes or longer depending on what region you selected.
16. To view the recovered Compute Engine instance in the Google Cloud console of Google Cloud project 2, in the **Navigation menu**, clicked **Compute Engine > VM instances**.

    _**Note:** The job may take five minutes or longer to finish._

_**Note:** Before you set the default service account as a **Principal** in a different project, you must add the default service account as a **Principal** in the target project._

I successfully used Google Backup and DR Service to create a backup template and then applied it to two Compute Engine instances.
When a device malfunctions, you can use Backup and DR Service to restore malfunctioning devices across multiple Google Cloud projects.
